README.md, before:


# 🐶 Dim Dawg AI Financial Analyzer

**Tech Business Edition: Secure. Local. Intelligent.**

Dim Dawg is a premium, privacy-focused financial dashboard purpose-built for **Technology Services Companies** (Agencies, SaaS, Consultancies). It runs entirely in your browser using **Google Gemini** models to parse bank statements, categorize tech-spend, and model your Burn Rate and Runway.

It follows a **Local-First** architecture (your data lives in `localStorage`), with an optional **Google Sheets Backend** for cross-device sync.

---

## 🚀 Key Features

### 🧠 Intelligent Tech Finance Core
- **📄 Smart Parsing (Gemini 2.5 Flash):** Drag & drop PDF statements or CSVs. The AI detects business categories like Cloud Infrastructure (AWS), SaaS Subscriptions, and Contractor Payouts.
- **💬 Tech CFO Assistant:** An always-available chat assistant. Ask *"What is my current burn rate?"*, *"Can I afford to hire another contractor?"*, or *"How much runway do we have?"*
- **🔮 Runway Forecast (Gemini 3 Pro):** A dedicated Cash Flow modeling engine. It combines your **Historical OpEx** with **Known Recurring Revenue (MRR)** to generate realistic 6-month runway projections.

### 🏛️ Business Balance Sheet
- **🕰️ Time Travel:** View your Company Equity snapshot as of today, or travel back to see what it looked like at the end of previous fiscal years.
- **🔗 Dynamic Grounding:** Link Liabilities (e.g. Venture Debt) to transaction categories to auto-update values as you make payments.
- **💰 Asset Tracking:** Track Cash, Accounts Receivable, and IP value alongside automated cash flow.

### ⚡ Automation & Control
- **⚡ Rules Engine:** Create custom "If this, then that" rules (e.g., "Upwork" → "Contractor Fees").
- **🪄 Magic Wand:** Instantly create categorization rules from transaction rows.
- **📅 Recurring Manager:** Auto-detect SaaS subscriptions and Payroll patterns to harden your forecasts.

### 📊 Visualization & Data
- **📈 Operating Dashboard:** Revenue vs. OpEx bars, Category breakdown (Software vs Admin vs Personnel), and Net Cash Flow.
- **📉 P&L Reports:** Generate printable Profit & Loss statements for tax preparation.
- **🔒 Local-First Privacy:** Data is stored in your browser by default. It never leaves your device unless you explicitly sync to your own Google Sheet.

---

## 📱 Page Guide

Detailed breakdown of the application views:

- **📊 Dashboard:** Your command center. Visualizes Revenue, OpEx, and Net Cash Flow.
- **📝 Transactions:** The general ledger. Search, filter, edit, and categorize every operational transaction.
- **📈 Profit & Loss:** A professional-grade P&L statement. View your Net Operating Income and Margins for any fiscal year.
- **🏛️ Balance Sheet:** Track Business Assets (Cash, AR) and Liabilities (Loans, AP).
- **🔮 Forecast:** The Runway engine. Generates a 6-month burn rate analysis. Includes a "Scenario Simulator" to test the impact of hiring or purchasing new tools.
- **⚡ Rules:** Automate categorization for recurring vendors.
- **⚙️ Settings:** Connect to the Google Sheets backend, manage API keys for external integrations, and handle data resets.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** React 18, Tailwind CSS, Lucide Icons
- **AI Integration:** Google GenAI SDK (`gemini-2.5-flash`, `gemini-3-pro-preview`)
- **State Management:** React Context + LocalStorage Persistence
- **Visualization:** Recharts
- **Backend (Optional):** Google Apps Script + Google Sheets

---

## ☁️ Google Sheets Backend (Sync)

The backend utilizes **Google Apps Script** to turn a standard spreadsheet into a JSON API.

### 1. Automatic Schema Creation
You **do not** need to manually create columns. When the app syncs for the first time, it automatically creates the necessary tabs (`Users`, `Transactions`, `Rules`, `Recurring`, `ApiKeys`) with the correct headers.

### 2. Database Schema

**Tab: `Transactions`**
| Column | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `transaction_id` | Unique UUID. |
| `user_id` | Links data to the user. |
| `date` | YYYY-MM-DD format. |
| `description` | Vendor name. |
| `amount` | Transaction value. |
| `category` | Assigned category. |
| `type` | `income` or `expense`. |

### 3. API & Security
The Apps Script acts as a router that accepts `POST` requests containing a JSON payload. It uses a `text/plain` content type workaround to bypass CORS restrictions standard to Google Web Apps.

---

## ⚙️ Setup Guide

### 1. Get a Gemini API Key
You need an API key to enable the AI features.
1. Go to [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/).
2. Create an API key.
3. Keep it safe (add it to `.env` or inject via environment variables).

### 2. Frontend Installation
1. Clone the repository.
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
3. Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
   ```env
   API_KEY=your_google_gemini_api_key_here
   ```
4. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

### 3. Backend Deployment (Optional)
1. **Create a Sheet:** Go to Google Sheets, create a blank sheet.
2. **Add Code:** Extensions > Apps Script. Paste the provided `Code.gs` (found in `App.tsx` or the settings panel).
3. **Deploy:** 
   - Click **Deploy** > **New deployment**.
   - Type: **Web app**.
   - Execute as: **Me**.
   - Who has access: **Anyone** (Required for the API to be accessible by the app).
4. **Connect:** Copy the Web App URL and paste it into the Dim Dawg **Settings** page.

---

## ⚠️ Privacy Note
When parsing PDFs or generating forecasts, data snippets are sent to Google Gemini for processing. This data is **transient** and is not used to train models. Your financial data is otherwise stored strictly on your device or your private Google Sheet.

Commit message:

feat: Enhance sheet API request handling and UI
Introduces robust error handling, logging, and URL validation within the Sheet API. Updates the FileUpload component with improved UI elements and descriptive text. Refactors App.tsx to manage new state variables for UI feedback and adds a 'ScanText' icon. Updates README.md with a roadmap section and clarifies legal jurisdiction and privacy notes.

README.md, after:


# 🐶 Dim Dawg AI Financial Analyzer

**Tech Business Edition: Secure. Local. Intelligent.**

Dim Dawg is a premium, privacy-focused financial dashboard purpose-built for **Technology Services Companies** (Agencies, SaaS, Consultancies). It runs entirely in your browser using **Google Gemini** models to parse bank statements, categorize tech-spend, and model your Burn Rate and Runway.

It follows a **Local-First** architecture (your data lives in `localStorage`), with an optional **Google Sheets Backend** for cross-device sync.

---

## 🚀 Key Features

### 🧠 Intelligent Tech Finance Core
- **📄 Smart Parsing (Gemini 2.5 Flash):** Drag & drop PDF statements or CSVs. The AI detects business categories like Cloud Infrastructure (AWS), SaaS Subscriptions, and Contractor Payouts.
- **💬 Tech CFO Assistant:** An always-available chat assistant. Ask *"What is my current burn rate?"*, *"Can I afford to hire another contractor?"*, or *"How much runway do we have?"*
- **🔮 Runway Forecast (Gemini 3 Pro):** A dedicated Cash Flow modeling engine. It combines your **Historical OpEx** with **Known Recurring Revenue (MRR)** to generate realistic 6-month runway projections.

### 🏛️ Business Balance Sheet
- **🕰️ Time Travel:** View your Company Equity snapshot as of today, or travel back to see what it looked like at the end of previous fiscal years.
- **🔗 Dynamic Grounding:** Link Liabilities (e.g. Venture Debt) to transaction categories to auto-update values as you make payments.
- **💰 Asset Tracking:** Track Cash, Accounts Receivable, and IP value alongside automated cash flow.

### ⚡ Automation & Control
- **⚡ Rules Engine:** Create custom "If this, then that" rules (e.g., "Upwork" → "Contractor Fees").
- **🪄 Magic Wand:** Instantly create categorization rules from transaction rows.
- **📅 Recurring Manager:** Auto-detect SaaS subscriptions and Payroll patterns to harden your forecasts.

### 📊 Visualization & Data
- **📈 Operating Dashboard:** Revenue vs. OpEx bars, Category breakdown (Software vs Admin vs Personnel), and Net Cash Flow.
- **📉 P&L Reports:** Generate printable Profit & Loss statements for tax preparation.
- **🔒 Local-First Privacy:** Data is stored in your browser by default. It never leaves your device unless you explicitly sync to your own Google Sheet.

---

## 📱 Page Guide

Detailed breakdown of the application views:

- **📊 Dashboard:** Your command center. Visualizes Revenue, OpEx, and Net Cash Flow.
- **📝 Transactions:** The general ledger. Search, filter, edit, and categorize every operational transaction.
- **📈 Profit & Loss:** A professional-grade P&L statement. View your Net Operating Income and Margins for any fiscal year.
- **🏛️ Balance Sheet:** Track Business Assets (Cash, AR) and Liabilities (Loans, AP).
- **🔮 Forecast:** The Runway engine. Generates a 6-month burn rate analysis. Includes a "Scenario Simulator" to test the impact of hiring or purchasing new tools.
- **⚡ Rules:** Automate categorization for recurring vendors.
- **⚙️ Settings:** Connect to the Google Sheets backend, manage API keys for external integrations, and handle data resets.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** React 18, Tailwind CSS, Lucide Icons
- **AI Integration:** Google GenAI SDK (`gemini-2.5-flash`, `gemini-3-pro-preview`)
- **State Management:** React Context + LocalStorage Persistence
- **Visualization:** Recharts
- **Backend (Optional):** Google Apps Script + Google Sheets

---

## ☁️ Google Sheets Backend (Sync)

The backend utilizes **Google Apps Script** to turn a standard spreadsheet into a JSON API.

### 1. Automatic Schema Creation
You **do not** need to manually create columns. When the app syncs for the first time, it automatically creates the necessary tabs (`Users`, `Transactions`, `Rules`, `Recurring`, `ApiKeys`) with the correct headers.

### 2. Database Schema

**Tab: `Transactions`**
| Column | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `transaction_id` | Unique UUID. |
| `user_id` | Links data to the user. |
| `date` | YYYY-MM-DD format. |
| `description` | Vendor name. |
| `amount` | Transaction value. |
| `category` | Assigned category. |
| `type` | `income` or `expense`. |

### 3. API & Security
The Apps Script acts as a router that accepts `POST` requests containing a JSON payload. It uses a `text/plain` content type workaround to bypass CORS restrictions standard to Google Web Apps.

---

## ⚙️ Setup Guide

### 1. Get a Gemini API Key
You need an API key to enable the AI features.
1. Go to [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/).
2. Create an API key.
3. Keep it safe (add it to `.env` or inject via environment variables).

### 2. Frontend Installation
1. Clone the repository.
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
3. Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
   ```env
   API_KEY=your_google_gemini_api_key_here
   ```
4. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

### 3. Backend Deployment (Optional)
1. **Create a Sheet:** Go to Google Sheets, create a blank sheet.
2. **Add Code:** Extensions > Apps Script. Paste the provided `Code.gs` (found in `App.tsx` or the settings panel).
3. **Deploy:** 
   - Click **Deploy** > **New deployment**.
   - Type: **Web app**.
   - Execute as: **Me**.
   - Who has access: **Anyone** (Required for the API to be accessible by the app).
4. **Connect:** Copy the Web App URL and paste it into the Dim Dawg **Settings** page.

---

## ✅ Roadmap / To-Do

- [ ] **Multi-Currency Support:** Handle EUR, GBP, and CAD conversions automatically.
- [ ] **Invoice Generation:** Create PDF invoices directly from income transactions.
- [ ] **Tax Estimation:** Basic estimated tax calculation based on net profit.
- [ ] **Receipt Scanning:** Upload images of receipts and use multimodal AI to extract data.
- [ ] **Slack/Discord Integration:** Get weekly burn rate alerts in your team channel.
- [ ] **Belize Compliance Module:** Automated GST (General Sales Tax) calculation and Business Tax reporting for Belizean entities.

---

## 🇧🇿 Legal & Jurisdiction

**Governing Law:**
This software and its financial logic are designed to comply with the financial regulations and banking laws of **Belize**. All financial modeling, tax estimations (where applicable), and data handling practices are structured to align with the *Belize Companies Act* and the *Domestic Banks and Financial Institutions Act*.

---

## ⚠️ Privacy Note
When parsing PDFs or generating forecasts, data snippets are sent to Google Gemini for processing. This data is **transient** and is not used to train models. Your financial data is otherwise stored strictly on your device or your private Google Sheet.
